Introduction 
The aim of this report is to analyse and describe the design of the project in order to help 
people be familiar with the fundamental purpose of the project and the design idea. It will 
contain a project overview which includes the problem statement and target audience, and 
what will be delivered in the project through user stories and acceptance criteria. 
Project Overview 
Problem Statement 
Australia, a nation known for its outdoor lifestyle and a diverse population, faces the 
challenge of developing sun safety guidelines that effectively balance the risks of skin cancer 
with the crucial need for vitamin D, particularly for young adults with darker skin tones. 
Prolonged sun exposure to harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation is a leading cause of skin 
cancer, including melanoma, which is on the rise in Australia. How might we encourage 
young Australian adults to engage and maintain sun-safe behaviours, given the significant 
risk of skin cancer including melanoma and the importance of vitamin D intake? 
Target Audience 
The target audience for this project are young Australians within Victoria, Australia who have 
many outdoor activities and are exposed to the sun for a long period of time in their daily 
lives.

1.0 Epic - Track UV Levels and personalisation 
As a young adult, I want to understand the balance between sun protection and vitamin D needs, so that I can make informed decisions about sun exposure to prevent skin cancer.
 
User Story 1.1  
US1.1 View UV Levels locations
As a young adult I want to view UV index of different locations so that I can decide the right time to go outside and what sun protection is required.

Acceptance Criteria:
Given I am on the homepage of UV Defender website
when I navigate to the UV Levels section from the tabs and see a search bar and I enter a string of characters or 4-digit numeric postcode (e.g., "Clayton, Melbourne") into the search bar and click on the “Search” button
then a new “UV Results” page will display the current UV index of the selected location.

Description:Must Have. Call API to view 
the UV index based on 
location. Colour code the 
level of UV hazard 
accordingly to the level of 
danger.



US1.2 Data about UV impacts
As a young adult, I want to understand the danger that UV presents in Australia so that I can increase my understanding of the of age-appropriate tips and tricks.

 
Acceptance Criteria:
Given I am on the Homepage of UV Defender application,
When I select the “UV Impact Info” tab,
Then I see the visualization showing impacts of UV exposure based on Age Group and trend of heat in Australia

Description:
Must Have.To show 2 visualisations of the impacts of skin cancer and the trend of heat in Australia.  Database.


US1.3 Personalisation
As a young Australian adult,
I want to understand the specific risks and benefits of sun exposure for my skin type,
so that I can develop a personalized sun safety plan that meets my individual needs.

Acceptance Criteria: 
Given I am a user on the Homepage
When I click the “Personalised Sun Safety Advice” tab from the Homepage
Then a new page opens with a section for selecting my skin type using the slider.
When I slide and select my skin tone
Then the system processes my selection immediately and displays a detailed risk assessment, including UV exposure risk and personalised safe sun exposure guidelines.

Description:
Should Have. Calculate estimate of spoons of sunscreen depending on UV index and skin tone.

2.1 User Story- Sunscreen reminders
As a young Australian I would like to be reminded when I need to reapply sunscreen so that I remain protected from the sun throughout the day.

Acceptance Criteria: 
 Given I am a user on the Home Page who accesses the Sunscreen Reminders settings page
When I select my sunscreen type (e.g., SPF 30) from the available options, enter the time I applied it (or click Start Now), and confirm the settings by clicking a Save button
Then the system calculates the optimal reapplication interval based on the chosen SPF and the current UV index, and displays a confirmation summary on the settings page

Description:
Must have. To set reminders of when to apply .

 
User Story 2.2:
As a young Australian adult,
I want to be able to easily find and access sun-safe products and clothing,
so that I can protect myself from the sun effectively and conveniently.


Acceptance Criteria:
Given I am a user on the Home Page who selects the “Sun-Safe Products” tab to access the product recommendations page
When I view the page and use filtering options (such as by category: sun-protective clothing, sunglasses, or sunscreen) or search for a specific product
Then it displays a list of products that match my selection and links to purchase the products.

Description:
Should Have. Clothing 
recommendations based on 
UV levels. 
